RegMath: math libraries for Regina

RegMath consists of two libraries of transcendental functions which
allow rexx programmers to easily and efficiently perform calculations in
a wide array of application domains. In both libraries, the routines
convert rexx variables into binary floating point format and use the
system's math libraries to perform the calculation. This has the
advantage of simplicity and speed, but limits precision to 16 digits.

RxMath duplicates the interface of IBM's RxMath library. RexxMath is
intended to duplicate the interface of a math library which is available
for AmigaRexx. Which library you use depends largely on whether you need
code which is compatible with RxMath or you need code which is
compatible with AmigaRexx. The IBM routines provide more flexibility
in the trig functions, but the other library has more functions over-all.

In order to make this a `rexx math bumper pack', I have included John
Brock's excellent Rexx implementation of most of the same routines.
Because they are written in Rexx, they allow arbitrary precision based
on the setting of numeric digits, which may be necessary in some
applications. There is unfortunately a substantial performance penalty,
and Rexx does not provide a convenient mechanism for loading libraries
written in Rexx.

I previously released RexxMath as an unsupported library. This release
supercedes the earlier AMath, fixes one serious bug, and implements a
new function which I missed previously.

This is version 1.0.0. I will increment the third digit each time I do
a bug-fix release. I will increment the second digit if I ever add a
large number of new functions, however the only ones missing here are
the Bessel functions, and I haven't used them in years.

To compile the library using Microsoft C, type nmake -f Makefile.nt.
To compile the library under FreeBSD, type make -f Makefile.bsd.
To compile the library using EMX GCC under OS/2, type make -f Makefile.emx.
To compile the library under another Unix system, you might try using
the FreeBSD makefile as a departure point.

To install on NT, copy rexxmath.dll and/or rxmath.dll to a directory in
your path (e.g., the directory with regina.exe).

To install on OS/2, copy rexxmath.dll and/or rxmath.dll to a directory
in your LIBPATH. Note: do not install rxmath.dll if you have IBM's
version. rexxmath.dll will work with IBM Rexx, though.

To install on Unix systems, copy librexxmath.so/librxmath.so (or
whatever they're called on your system :( to some central location and
put that central location in your LD_LIBRARY_PATH, LIBPATH, SHLIB_PATH,
or whatever it's called on your system. FreeBSD has a nice utility to
set standard library searches, which you might want to investigate.

Provided as-is in the hopes that it will be useful.
-- patrick mcphee ptjm@interlog.com
