Q. I'm used to XEDIT. How do I make THE look and feel like XEDIT.
A. THE has a compatibility mode for both XEDIT and KEDIT. The best
   thing to do to get either look and feel (and then tailor them to your
   taste), is to add the SET COMPAT XEDIT XEDIT XEDIT command as the first
   line in your profile file. FOr KEDIT, replace all XEDIT with KEDIT in the
   SET COMPAT command above.

Q. How do I get the cursor into the filearea from the command line ?
A. That depends on the compatibility mode you are running in and the
   terminal you are executing THE on.  If running in XEDIT compatibility
   mode, the arrow keys and the TAB key should move you around the screen
   as though you are running on a block mode terminal. In other compatibiltiy
   modes, the key defined as "cursor home" or "cursor home save" will toggle
   between the filearea and the command line. On DOS, Win32, OS/2 and X11
   the key defined is the HOME key.

Q. How do I run THE using Un*x's "magic number" feature ?
A. An example is easier, assume the file is named; aaa:
   +------------------
   #!/usr/local/bin/the -qbp
   'msg Hello from THE!'
   'qq'
   Return
   +------------------
   This will run THE in batch mode treating all commands after the line
   starting with #! as THE commands.  The file(s) edited are those passed
   as parameters to 'aaa'

Q. I've built THE on AIX 4.2/4.3 using the IBM supplied curses and THE does
   a couple of strange things:
   1) a couple of the colors seem to be switched
   2) when the FILEAREA scrolls horizontally (because I've moved the cursor
      past the edge of the screen), the cursor moves down one line.
A. Simple answer is IBM has broken their curses library!
   1) Since THE 3.0, a test is done in the configure script to check for
      this problem, and correct it. The problem recurs if you have applied
      PTF U461962 which corrects APARs IX83417 or IX64346. This PTF was
      supplied in fileset bos.terminfo.ibm.data.4.3.2.1.
      If the colors are broken, either add -DHAVE_BROKEN_COLORS in the
      generated Makefile (if it isn't there), or remove it if it is.
      Thanks to Klaus Wolkersdorfer for supplying this information.
   2) AIX curses is broken! Use ncurses or XCurses if possible or get IBM
      to fix their code ;-)
      (Update for THE 3.1) A workaround has been written to fix this.

