RexxUtil for Regina (Regutil), version 1.3.0

RegUtil is now distributed as part of the Regina Rexx interpreter. However
this does not preclude RegUtil being able to be built for other interpreters
independently from Regina.  Simply follow the notes described in the 1.2.5
section below.

RexxUtil for Regina (RegUtil), version 1.2.5
(original notes from last stand-alone version of Regutil)

RegUtil is an implementation of IBM's RexxUtil for Regina. RexxUtil is a
collection of functions which perform certain useful services, such as
searching directories and files, performing contention management, and so on.
The documentation is in regutil.pdf, which is part of the distribution.

RegUtil is not finished, but it's getting closer. If there is a function which
you need, but which returns 'not implemented', do let me know. If you feel
like implementing some of the unimplemented functions, please let me know. If
you find a bug, please let me know about that, too. As of version 1.1.0, you
can test the version number of the library by calling the sysutilversion()
function. Note that IBM's implementation returns 2 for the current release,
but regutil returns 1.25 (you can tell them apart this way -- there's no
version of IBM's library which returns anything less than 2).

This is version 1.2.5. I will increment the third digit each time I do a
bug-fix release. I will increment the second digit if I ever add a large
number of new functions, however the goal is to provide compatibility with
IBM's libraries, so this is unlikely to happen (except when IBM adds a large
number of new functions ...).

To compile the library using Microsoft C, type nmake -f Makefile.nt. To
compile the library under FreeBSD systems, type make -f Makefile.bsd. To
compile the library under another Unix system, you might try using the
provided make files. Good luck, and let me know how it goes. The make files
assume the stock vendor compiler -- to use another compiler such as gcc,
you'll generally need to remove the flags that don't start with -D from the
PCFLAGS definition and add -fPIC or the position-independent-code flag for
your compiler.

This code has been built on FreeBSD, NT, Solaris, HP, TRU64 Unix, Linux,
Dynix, and AIX.

To install on NT, copy rexxutil.dll to a directory in your path (e.g., the
directory with regina.exe). To install on Unix systems, copy librexxutil.so
(or whatever it's called on your system :( to some central location and put
that central location in your LD_LIBRARY_PATH, LIBPATH, SHLIB_PATH, or
whatever it's called on your system. FreeBSD has a nice utility to set
standard library searches, which you might want to investigate.


-- Patrick TJ McPhee
   ptjm@interlog.com
